the new laws don't specifically target private business, but if you contract with the govt it does
title 3 makes accessability needed for private businesses
  - under global web acessability guidelines
  - www.ada.gov/resources/2024-03-08-web-rule

title 2 is govt accessability protection
title 3 in private business accessability protection

mobile accessability is included

needs to be:
percievable: viewable for all users ie. alt text
operable: navigatable ie. keyboard navigation, be mindful of the structure of the webpage, use headings, don't just make the text bigger
understandable: clear language and consistent navigation
robust: ensure compatibility with various assistive technologies

How to comply:
Provide alt text for images
  color contrast
  make forms accessible - clear labels, error messages, proper field grouping
  keyboard navigation
  test them using assistive technologies, test interactions
  train for making sites accessible
android uses talk back
mac uses voice over
pc uses jaws
WCAG 2.1 Guidelines or later
prioritize 2.1 before moving into 2.2
regularly update to meet with compliance

DEI - Diversity, Equity,and Inclusion
WCAG - Web Content Accessiblity Guidelines -> global guidelines
Section 508 addresses electronic and information technology, mandates that it must be accessible to people with disabilities -> USA specific

prioritize accessibility improvements
1. Audit and Identity and then Prioritize (critical errors to minor enhancements) -> navigation is the most important
2. Legal Requirements -> ADA Compliance 
3. High-Traffic Pages -> prioritize pages with high traffic or critical functions (ie login, checkout)
4. Common Elements -> focus on shared components that affect multiple pages (ie headers, navigation, forms) so if the logo generates an error and its on every page it will generate an error for every page, so fixing it will get rid of every error it created
5. User Impact -> fix issues that hinder functionality
6. WCAG Guidelines -> eg keybaord navigation, color contrast
7. Feedback and Testing -> gather feedback and test with assistive technologies
8. Regularly review and improve, its an ongoing effort

Common Pitfalls to Avoid:
1. ignoring Alt text
2. Insufficient color contrast for text against backgrounds -> WCAG has scores based on font size
3. Keyboard Only Navigation Issues -> ensure interactive elements are accessible with keyboard only
4. Inaccessible Forms
5. Complex Layouts -> keep layout simple and semantic
6. Only Automated Accessibility Tools



